article_id : article_a



article_heading : Paperless Retail: Zimbabwe’s home grown solution for retailers.



article_summary : Introducing a cutting-edge point-of-sale (POS) system tailored for Zimbabwe’s financial 
market! Revolutionizing transactions, it seamlessly handles multi-currency complexities, bidding farewell 
to currency headaches and ushering in streamlined efficiency. Get ready for a game-changer.



The retail sector in Zimbabwe continues to grow despite the myriad of challenges the country is facing. 
The sector is on a high, but despite this rise, there remains a number of problems facing many companies, 
which need innovative home grown solutions now more than ever.



Zimbabwe is currently operating under a unique multi-currency environment. Although this has brought 
convenience to the transacting public, it has also been the source of headaches for many retailers.
The point of sale system for retailers is one specific area that needs an immediate solution to deal with 
issues that have arisen from the use of multi currencies. Although they are a number of POS systems
currently in use in the country. Until now, we were lacking a POS system that was designed specifically 
to suit the needs of our Zimbabwean financial market. That is until the Paperless Retail came on the scene.



To have a deeper understanding of how this software can help your business, let’s take a look at what major 
problems you will be solving by using the system;



HH The currency issue.



Currently Zimbabweans are using a variety of currencies, namely the Zimbabwean dollar, Rands and United States 
dollars. This scenario automatically presents a challenge to many shop owners when it comes to receipting 
customers and calculating sales from these different currencies.



If you are a business owner in Zimbabwe, then you no longer need to worry about that. Paperless POS is tailor 
made to take care of this problem. The system has a built-in, simple to use, currency converter.
The currency symbols and conversion factors can be changed by Managers depending on the economic climate. 
A single transaction can be completed using multiple currencies.



HH The Issue of Change.



Another issue that has emanated from the multi-currency situation is the need to constantly find the suitable 
rate when giving change to customers. If a customer requires change, how do you calculate the
correct amount in such a way that your business won’t suffer a loss because of the discrepancies in value 
of currencies? If that has been a challenge for you, then look no further than Paperless Retail for a
convenient solution.



HH Ease of use.



You do not need to be a tech guru to be able to use Paperless Retail POS. It was designed in such a way that 
it is intuitive. The user friendly interface is simple to navigate from point A to Z.



Another thing that makes it simple to use, is that it does not rely on a mouse to operate, but you can use 
a keyboard only. For POS systems the keyboard is the next best input method, behind the touchscreen of course.



HH Reliability.



The Paperless Retail system offers unmatchable reliability. Whilst some systems may fail or crash from time to 
time, our system runs smoothly, ensuring that your business operations are not disturbed. Besides that, we have 
an efficient and reliable support team, which is always on hand 24/7 to deal with any problems that may arise.



HH In depth and accurate reports



Paperless Retail is there to make your business operations smoother. That is why our reports are in depth in 
order to help you analyse how things are moving in your company. Hourly, daily, weekly, monthly reports can all 
be easily accessed. The system also helps you keep track of your stock, without the tedious task of stock taking.



As a way to introduce Paperless Retail to the market, its makers have an exciting promotion on offer. Download 
the Paperless Retail software on this website TODAY for FREE, contact them to ask for a free 1 month trial 
licence, and enjoy a world of convenience.


