article_id : article_c



article_heading : The hardware you need for a retail POS system..



article_summary : Get ready to dive into the exciting world of retail technology! From touch screen computers 
to lightning-fast barcode scanners, we’ll explore the gear that powers seamless transactions and enhances 
customer experiences.



Our previous articles have established the importance of a POS system in retail outlets. I hope you have 
read them, if not please click here.



Lets now take a look at the hardware that is necessary for a modern retail outlet to operate efficiently. 
You'll be happy to learn that all of the elements that will be discussed in this section are readily available.



HH 01 - Computer



Computer software runs from the CPU, while transactions are displayed on the monitor. Paperless Retail is 
a software that is optimized to work for touch screen computers, but it can also work quite well with a keyboard. 
The mouse is not necessary for performing transactions. Touch screen computer systems are more user friendly 
than traditional computer systems which use a keyboard and mouse.



HH 02 - Barcode Scanner



You might also need a barcode scanner. Scanning barcodes is the fastest way to pull product info from the 
database and add it into the cart. It's not the only way to add items to the cart, so if funds are limited your 
retail outlet can operate without one.



HH 03 - Thermal Receipt Printer



Paper receipts have and will always remain essential for providing customers with a quick snapshot of their 
purchase or returns. They also play a key role in store security. So having a thermal printer to print out 
these receipts is a must. But WHY a thermal printer in particular? you may ask. The advantages of thermal 
printers are as follows:
BBB Lower maintenance costs.
BBB Excellent print quality.
BBB High reliability.
BBB Easy handling — no ink / ribbon.
BBB High speed printing.
BBB Easy paper loading.



HH 04 - Cash Drawer



HH 05 - Credit Card Reader



HH Conclusion



Most retail outlets already possess the hardware elements mentioned in this article, so getting started with 
Paperless Retail is not difficult. Download the software, and contact Paperless Integrated Solutions for a 
free 1 month license.



However, you may have been using the paper and pen method all this time and you now want to go digital. 
Paperless Integrated Solutions is a supplier of original hardware elements required for a POS system. 
Contact them for a quote.


